Dear audio friends,

the last time I wrote you (one month ago) I annunced that I 
will have two very good speakers at home, trying to remove from 
my living room my old and loved ProAC Response 1S bookshelf.
The two candidates are the Living Voice Avatar (4000 GBP) and 
the "enfant prodige" Acoustic Zen Adagio (4300 US$). Both are 
standing speakers with 2 ways and double woofer in D'Appolito
configuration (see first picture). The main difference is that
the Avatar have a bass reflex and higher sensitivity, while the
Adagio are loaded in a trasmission line (like the Thor project,
but with the port on the front side) and have "only" 89 dB.
Another difference is that the Adagio uses "special" drivers. 

What I'm going to say in  describing how they sound is something
that is strongly biased from 3 subjective conditions: 1) my 
living room 2) my system (in particular my power amplifier, which
is a C-J push-pull of EL34 in pseudotriode with only 22 W and
only one output - thought for 8 Ohm) 3) my personal taste!

The Living Voice Avatar were really happy with the 22 W of my
EL34. The bass was deeper and louder than that of my ProAC 
(of course), but also the high frequencies were more detailed
and clear. On the other hand, the midrange of my Response 1S 
was more natural and realistic, in particular with male voices.
But what I have found to be the most impressive performance
of the Avatar is the soundstage: really incredible!
I think that the asymmetric (toward inside) tweeter position
and a very "clean" crossover must be the oring of such a
great scene.

The Adagio are really something expecial: the woofers are ceramic
with "under-hung" coile (to reduce distorsion), while the tweeter
is a custom circular ribbon, which plays from 3 kHz up to... heaven!
When you first listen them you are shot by their resolution,
un-distorsion and... bass clearness. This trasmission line bass
is not only deep and loud (see diagram 1, made at 1.2m), but first 
of all it is "realistic", something which you can't find easily.

Are the Adagio the perfect speakers, at leas at "human" price?  
Well, I'm not sure. The soundstage is very good but not as the 
Avatar, the midrange is very clear but not so natural as my Responce
1S, the resolution is wonderfull but not so unbelivable as the 
Audiostatic ES-300, which I proved in my room few months ago...
The big deal of the Adagio is that they are close to the "best 
of the class" in almost every parameter: all that is ONE speaker!

In any case, the Adagio are not speakers for everyone: first of
all their high resolution demands that all your system must be
"correct". You will able to listen even a bit "colored" cable
being in the signal path (Ehi boys: Acoustic Zen is a "cable 
company" which developed this speaker as a testing instrument!).
Second, they have a constant impedance (see the "straight" diagram
2!), but I measured it closer to 5 than 6 Ohm and not all the
tube amplifiers will enjoy it (300B in particular?).
Third, the tweeter starts to play music after 2/3 hours of use,
but that is probably true for all ribbons. Fourth, they are quite 
linear, while some people could prefere a more "characterized" 
response...
So, if you are not prepared to put in discussion all your system, 
then don't be as fool like me and don't bring at home an Adagio 
sample "just for a trial", because probably you will not able to 
remove them and your wife will not be very happy this Christmas 
(see the last picture...)!

	With my very best Christmass whishes!

		Tino

P.S. I wrote to Acoustic Zen about the "midrange not perfect"
issue and Robert Lee answered me that he can try to do 
something, so, if you are interested, may be that I will
update you in future...

P.P.S. If you don't want to receive anymore similar email 
just let me know...
