Lubiana Hi-Fi Show Reloaded

Dear Audiophile Friends,
after my reportage of the last Lubiana HiFi Show, here you can find
a follow up, that is the visit that I and my friend "Faber" did few
days ago to 3 of the best sounding distributors of the Show.

1)	KUZMA (Kranj)
First we went to the Franc Kuzma atelier, where we listened this
top-system: Kuzma XXL turntable with Air Line tangential tonearm
and Dynavctor XV-1 cartridge (first picture), Zanden phono and 
line pre, Karen monobloks power amps and the big Nola loudspeakers, 
that you can see in the second picture.
The resolution and dynamic where at absolute values. We were able
to listen very clearly how different are the sounds recorded in 
a RCA or a Mercury vinyl. We also were able to listen the "train"
played by Maskeba at "more than live" volume without any glance 
of distorsion or less-than-perfect trackability.
I think, but I can't prove it, that most of the incredible 
performances were due to the source and the two Zanden preamps.
Kuzma is still improving his XL turntable and the next year we
will probably enjoy also a new tonearm, so... check www.kuzma.si!

2)	NEL AUDIO (Lubiana)
The system was similar to that of the Show, that is Mirko Smolic
turntable, Whest phono pre, ModWright pre, Kronzilla "Huge Triode"
(22W in single ended) but with a cheap Rotel HDCD. Loudspeakers 
were the Acoustic Zen Adagio, while cables were the top of the 
same company (see the third picture).
At the beginning we were a little disappointed with the sound, 
probably because of the CD player and the room (which was not 
really good). Moving a little the loudspeakers and adding more 
control in the AC main power (with a big 1:1  transformer and some 
Faber calbes) helped to improve the final result. Nel Audio is 
anxiously waiting for the new ModWright phono and CD player units,
so the system can improve a lot. In any case, you can already find 
in this small shop some good components at very good price. For 
example: 2.5 kE for the ModWright pre or less than 5 kE for the 
discounted Kronzilla power amp.

3)	CANYON AUDIO (Nova Gorica)
The last visit was for this shop, 1 km far from the italian border.
The system was a Wadia CD player, McIntosh pre and power amp and 
Chario Ursa Major loudspeakers, with Oyaide cable (last picture). 
Unfortunately we were already tired by the audio trip, but in any 
case we were still able to enjoy the dynamic and with abundand low 
frequency sound. If you like these parameters more than others, 
then less than 5 kE for the Ursa Major could be considered a small 
bargain. In this case, adding some good Faber calbes improved 
notably the resolution and soundstage.

	FOLLOW UP
From this slovenian trip we brought home a lot new experience but 
in particular I brought home also the Acoustic Zen Adagio (from Nel)
and a pair of Living Voice Avatar 2 (from Canyon) for an "in my system"
trial. Today it is very nice to find distributors so kind and I want
to thank them again. I also hope to write you a short report on these
2 speakers against my ProAC. So... stay tuned!

	Have a nice listening to all of you,
	Tino


P.S. If you don't want to receive anymore my audio-email just tell me.

P.P.S. On the road between Kranj and Ljubljana we went to lunch in the
"Skarucna Restaurant", which a friend told me should be a good one.
Unfortunately, he didn't told me that you need at least 3 hours and
quite a lot of money to eat there. Anyway, it was one of the most 
hi-end lunch we have ever had! Really a big journey ;)
