Dear audiophile friends,
after my last email on the digital amplifier TacT TDA2200, today I would
like to tell you about my recent visit to Audio Consulting, near Geneve.
First, I have to say that the Audio Consulting Deus ex machina, Serge Schmidling,
is a very, very kind person. He had no problem to accept, only a few days before,
my request to visit him the next saturday, in the Audio Consulting site, which is
also his own home. His web site is: http://www.audio-consulting.ch 

His listening room is quite small, all covered with oiled wood, since he strongly 
believes in natural materials, and is trying  to avoid magnetic materials as much as possible.
His equipment is based on a 8 Watt solid state amplifier (first two pictures), which
uses a parallel of many FET in plastic case as active stage. Of course, there are
many -input, interstage, output- Silver Rock transformers and all the -internal and
external- cables are done with silver wire (without shielding if the cable is shorter
than a few meters). The amplifier is powered by a -100 Ah?- special battery.
The speackers are the italian Mantra Sound "Dulcet" with two "headphone-like" 
cones loaded by a wooden horne, coupled with a big (32cm?) woofer and with 
an external crossover (see picture 3). 

Really special components are also the sources. First, the analog source is a
Verdiere Platine turntable -highly modified- with a Morsiani tonearm, Teres 
Audio motor (powered by battery) and Koetsu Red cartridge (pictures 4 and 5).
The turntable implemented a "slow" feedback from the plate to the motor to 
correct the angular velocity. Of course, the phone preamplifier was done with 
Silver Rock MC transformers and inductor RIAA filter. 

If that source is not enough complex for you, think about the digital source, 
which was... a small HP computer (iPalm)!!! In fact, the Audio Consulting way to 
digital sound is to read the CD and save them (not compressed!) in a 5GB Compact Flash, which can be inserted in the portable computer and played. In this way, 
the D/A conversion is made by the small HP palm! No rotating parts, no motors, 
low jitter. But why?
I think that Serge is playing with such toys, because he strongly believes in
the importance of a good main power (remember when playing with the T-amp
power supply?). With such a small device (CF reader and A/D converter) the 
only thing you can change is the main power you are using. 
Serge made us listen to 4 trials:
1) the main power using the original HP small AC/DC supply connected to the
"normal" AC main power.
2) the same but with the normal AC power supply filtered by a series of two
big Audio Consulting transformes (AC filters). 
3) the same as 2, but connected to the main AC obtained from two 380V phases
and a big main transformer instead that from the normal 220V + neutral.
4) using a big DC battery.
What was really surprising for me was the big difference of point 3 respect to
point 2. Unfortunately I can't have in my flat the 380V, but if you have it, let 
try to avoid the neutral cable, which, for Serge, is the main source of AC noise 
(he says that high armonics on the neutral could saturate the main transformer). 

The final question is how this system sounds?
Well, my impression is that it is wonderfull in some parameters, but not in all. 
For example, the tonal responce was really excellent, something near to the
very expencive (200.000E?) Audio Note system which I listened to the last 
Top Audio. Second, there is a good resolution, with many armonics in the high frequencies, as I like it to be. Third, the dynamic and velocity of transient 
are really wonderfull.
Where this system is "not perfect" for me is in the 3D soundstage. That can
be due to the -small- room and to the horn-loaded speakers. Also, the very low 
frequencies have not the big impact of, let say, the Avalon Eilodon in big room.

All togheter the systems sounds to me very "natural", and that is a very important
parameter. To conclude my short report, I add for you the main points that I
believe are guiding the Audio Consulting filosophy.

1) choice of material, trying to avoid metals and plastic, and using a lot of
wood and silver (which, by the way, *is* a metal, but seems that his oxidation
is better than the copper one);
2) try to avoid energy dispersion in heat. AC like to have high efficiency, to
drive all the good energy in music. Also they prefere small fans than metal
dissipators.
3) cure of the main power supply, using a lot of good transformers to purify
the main AC from spury armonics, in particular in the neutral cable. Battery is
an alternative, but not an easy one.
4) be always open-minded: Serge started with analog and vacuum tubes, but
now he plays with low power FET and... Compact Flash! So he is just trying to
discover what makes "Emotions in Sound"!

	Enjoy your listening!

		Tino