Dear Robert,
sorry if this email is too long for you, but I have so many things...!
First: thank you again for your help in changing the xovers. I have 
phoned yesterday (saturday morning) when I have finished the work to 
tell you my joy, but I have not found you. As visible in the first
picture our living room was a true lab and my wife helped a lot because
I needed to use two solders to work out your 11awg wires (to sold two 
of them together in the binding post was almost impossible, so I have 
not done a good work there). In the second picture you can see how I 
have placed the new xover inside the Adagio (hope it is well fixed) 
and in the third how I put the foam in the back of your new tweeter.
After about 20h of break-in (how many hours I need before to judge the 
sound?) the very first impression was of a "new voice", with tighter
mid-low frequencies and trasparent highs. 
Since the burn-in was too short for listening carefully, today I have
done a first tranche of measurements.
The first diagram shows the mid-high response at 50cm in front of the 
tweeter. Blue line is the left sp. while red line is the right sp.
The two lines are really similar! From 600 Hz to 20kHz the response
is flat, a part from a gentle valley at 5.5 kHz.
Below you can see a hole at 500 Hz. That is even more visible in the
second diagram (almost 10 dB) taken at 1m from the tweeter. This
diagram shows also a difference in the 2 sp. between 80 and 200 Hz,
where the right sp. (red) seems less flat. The third diagram is its
RTA, where it is possible to see also the 100-200 gap. 
The following diagram has been taken at 140cm of distance with both
the sp.s playing: the blue line is the response at tweeter height,
while the red line has the microphone higher (at 105cm from floor).
It seems that the 500 Hz hole is not depending from the mic placement.
In fact, the last measure shows that also in the -veryflat!- impedance 
curve there is "something" at 500 Hz. I think it has to do with the 
acoustic load inside the sp., not with the xover.
To have a better view one would add also the port response, which
probably partly compensate these 2 "holes". A part these 2 holes the 
response is very flat and the impedance is very constant. 
Do you think that the difference that I have found in the 100-200 Hz 
on the right sp. can be due to something which I have
made wrong?
Hope to provide you some listening impression the next week-end.
Thank you again!